---
title: Antoine Riard, Stretching Between Two Layers - Chaincode Residency Demo Day
transcript_by: masterchief164 via TBTBTC v1.0.0
media: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cq5t_DxOGnY
date: 2019-09-10
---

## <Untitled Chapter 1>

 Hi everyone, thanks for joining you. Today I'm going to talk about stretching between two layers and what's the challenge and struggle to begin with the contributors on two different layers. So let's get started. One, I used to be a student for Chitus Codin Paris just graduated this year. And 42 is quite interesting because that's a new education model. We don't have teachers, we don't have traditional crises, you know, it's only project-based and problem-based learning and institution-free. And I think that's sweet wool for Bitcoin where you don't have like, you know, established courses or established shows of knowledge and just learning to learn and grabbing stuff yourself. You have enough focus mostly on unique system and current engineering and CPU or texture.

## Real world financial system

 Yeah, and you know I've been triggered by Bitcoin in 2016 beginning of 2017 something like that When I read like all this stuff about lagging and further financial application and you know it was like Going from okay, it's not only digital goals are being exactly like a world financial system and that's only the first step And so That's quite a set of ideas running my mind like we should like you should I look on the clear and financial system and go through every layer like the storage of value layers of the payments system The girls come as a common infrastructure layers and training market to you know the risk management layers and yeah Start to think how we model and how we can rebuild you know is cryptographic protocols on top of Bitcoin this kind of already existence layers So one night by night by night by night by night by night

## Rust-Lightning

 I was like fascinated by this idea of channel and private contract between parties and same time like getting started with Bitcoin Core was too much. I mean I didn't know C++ it was quite doubting. So I was looking for like implementation to contribute on. I found like iPhone rust like ink by luck I guess. I was cool, it was exactly the same. So I've picked up this one and you know like I tell too much of this Brumat guy. I think it got like the basics between the texture well. So yeah, it should be interesting. So yeah I spent like a lot of nights during my final year contributing on rust like ink rust and ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink, rust like ink.

## Learning Bitcoin dev bit by bit...

 And we have this really cool, I love the channel, Ross Bitcoin, a lot of great folks are hanging here, like Carl Dome, like Andrew Poles, 12, of course, Steven Rose from Prox Stream, Sebastian Geister, also from Prox Stream. And I know it's all this guy, like asking questions to people who is modernized, like, candidoshi and blue mats. And we don't just a lot about Ross Bitcoin. So yeah, I was keeping contributing, and one day I received this mail from this guy, John Eubary, it was talking about Chinko during this density and was pushing me to apply. So of course I applied like the next day, and was super excited, and I got accepted. And so fast for what we used to use, we started the residency by three intense weeks of seminar. The 21st ones were Bitcoin, mostly Bitcoin, Bitcoin, and the last one was on the right knee. And it was super intense, we met a lot of great Bitcoin experience coming from all the parts of the world. Just for us, it was like, wow, awesome. And so my best memory was like just doing talks for the other residency. So we have this list of subjects, and we have to pick up like three of them, our right. We can have two pre-protele of them and give these stories to the other residency. A lot of fun, a lot of learning, was really great. Yeah, we started like the project period so now to that. And for me, it was just cleaning like one.0-spec objects for us like me. Yeah, and we almost almost done on the 1 1 0. And if you are like, you know, an exchange or a payment process or a wallet bundle, I would like to talk to you and exchange about how we are going to the problem acting for your Bitcoin application.

## The residency: exploring Lightning future

 One of the other great adventures of the residency is being surrounded by people deep into Bitcoin. And you know, being able to, I mean to talk to Spend a evening talking about the lighting features and with people with people with a real knowledge about the components and how do you fit them together for other networks like telecommunication or like multimedia platforms. I talk a lot also with Richard Meyers and we explored kind of using lighting information and I've drawn my own design. And maybe other things, things are for sure, maybe a lot.

## The residency: carrying on work in Core

 And yeah, I was also like keeping my work on contributing to core. I mean, between end-of-school and beginner-free residency, I have like... One month and a half to kill, and I was... Well, what I can do to learn in depth because I started to come to Toncore with our focus on refactoring, in tough-ass, modularity because I think that's important subjects. I see all the hurdles for liking implementations to connect and play on top of......beconjee. So yeah, carrying the words, I've learned a lot from real-duals down on my peer, from discussions with people. And......'re in deep pressure. So that's what I've been through, to either be..

## The residency: reviewing

 I spend a lot of time growing, doing the residency, because that matters a lot. That's the main bottleneck for going forward with the cut process. You learn a lot about how to separate your commits or to kill on them, how to make them better and easier for people using your stuff. So, what's a lot of fun, knows your great advantage is you are going to read code about spots of the codebase you're not contributing on. So, you're learning about other problems you could base. So, that's great. So, if you're a lot of commits, you're going to read codebase.

## Lessons working on critical infrastructure

 to mine. When you're working on this kind of really hard, the cool-to-calling infrastructure is, I mean, usual spend-time mastering based on the bridge, which is C++ for Bitcoin Core. And learning about the dependencies of the project like Boost, like Traveys, like Unity, Framework, like Functional Test Framework. And because all of this dependency is butter, you have usual also expect in-depth several degree of your peers. And people sometimes are going to see different traditions to the same problem. So you have to deal with it. I think people who is different opinions, and you have to pick one, implement, implement it, and get feedback from them. And last thing is, maybe it's hardest one, but, I mean, sometimes use you read like part of the Bitcoin Core code based, and that doesn't make sense. Because, in fact, it was designed at first as a prototype code based. You know, not as a production readie one. So yeah, we are keeping this refactoring, modular readie, interface, cleaning work. And that's really something I want to work on it forward, because that's, in my opinion, that's really important for all the ocean and lightning stuff you're building on top of it. So keeping this code based like clean and modular. And I mean, that's, that's, let's also your people's application developers, but also other people, a protocol developers, like, that's make their life easier. And I think also one thing you have like, further option protocols, like you know, I was looking at what like this, we are financial, the real financial world. And one day you are going to design protocol to, you know, have new kind of litter for credits, or you know, collections on top of the Bitcoin, on top of the Bitcoin first layer. And so we should take care of the basic, basic infrastructure with these things in mind. So thank you for our attention. It was a pleasure to have like, a lot of you here for today. Thank you.


