---
title: ChatGPT TERRIFIES Google
transcript_by: masterchief164 via TBTBTC v1.0.0
media: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VY4wCssNmmA
date: 2023-01-20
---

 Yeah!  Ha ha ha!  Ha ha ha!  You aren't going to believe this, but there's been some tech news recently.  Don't worry, we plan for this.  It's just like the simulations.  This is a simulation.  Google seems to have a monster under its bed named ChatGPT.  The recent launch of the popular AI chatbot has set off alarms at Google causing the company  to call in its dads for help.  Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the founders of Google and controlling shareholders of the  Perrin Company Alphabet, have come back to the company after having left their daily  roles back in 2019, also known as The Before Times.  To do whatever men under 50 with unlimited money can do, which is literally anything.  Or podcasting.  The pair were invited by current CEO, Sundar Pichai, last month to offer advice and pitch  ideas.  Google plans to launch over 20 AI products by the end of the year, including a demo version  of its search engine with chatbot features.  This is very exciting news for the company's AI division and everyone but the 12,000  people in other departments who are being laid off by Google do allegedly to economic  downturn.  The company is also facing several antitrust lawsuits, which is the opposite of trust,  from Epic and Match LLC, as well as the US departments of justice.  Just one department.  The justice one.  All this pressure could end up hurting Google bad, especially if Bing can implement chatbot  features first.  And someone notices.  Duck.go has when it just says turn off your computer.  Have you noticed Bing is different?  Twitter has officially banned third party clients.  But why should we care about third?  Bronze is a subpar medal that went out of style 3,000 years ago.  And yet, while that is completely true, Twitter may have not been super upfront about  how or why they were doing this.  The official Twitter dev account said that the platform was enforcing its long-standing  API rules and then neglected to name a rule.  Then yesterday, and Gadget noticed that Twitter had added a clause to the developer agreement  that banned the ability to use or access the licensed materials to create or attempt to  create a substitute or similar service or product to the Twitter applications.  The company that made Twitterific, the third party client that actually coined the term  tweet released a blog post saying that the social platform has become a Twitter that we no  longer recognize as trustworthy or worth coming up with fun colloquialisms for.  That's not part of the quota.  In a fun coincidence, that same Twitter, now owned by Elon Musk, also known as Buffalo  Bill Dodger, is being sued for refusing to pay the consulting firm that assisted in the  lawsuit the company launched against Musk when he tried to back it a buy-in.  That is amazing.  I tried coming up with analogy for this situation, but it's just too wacky.  It buffuddles analogies.  And the secure boot feature on it, at least 300 MSI motherboards, is not working as intended,  depending on who's doing the intending.  For the uninitiated, I almost said unintended.  Your boot is a feature in motherboard firmware that ensures PCs only boot software  that is trusted by the motherboard manufacturer.  However, security researcher David Putaki, discovered hundreds of MSI motherboards would  let just any old software boot.  Motherboards have no standard of these days, but don't worry, MSI has responded to the  findings, and according to them, it's working flawlessly.  The manufacturer said they added a second setting called image execution policy.  That is, set to always execute software by default, even though secure boot is enabled.  They said the default always execute setting is to offer a user-friendly environment, which  makes perfect sense, think of how user-friendly it would be to not have a front door.  You could just walk right into your house and not have to lock anything when you leave  it, and when you're really mad, no one knows.  And your counter is super clean because everyone stole your stuff.  You've got nothing to apologize for.  According to WCCF Tech, this behavior may not be isolated to MSI.  They claim that ASUS and Gigabyte boards may also have issues with securing their boot.  I guess no one knows how to tie their shoes anymore.  Might as well be slip-ons?  That never made it in frame, but I almost hit the camera.  Now I'm taller on one side.  Oh, fails all around when nerds try to throw.  Now it's time for QuickBits brought to you by Hetsner, the leading hosting provider and  data center operator in Europe with hundreds of thousands of servers in operation.  They don't serve beer, but they do serve reliability, which is much safer for computers.  By combining its strengths in innovative technology, attractive prices, expert support,  and flexible customer service, Hetsner extended its market both within and outside Europe.  They have two high-tech data centers in Germany, in Nuremberg and Falcon Stein, and one  in Helsinki, Finland.  And if you're thinking to yourself, hey, I'm on the E-slash West Coast of the United States,  why should I care about some European servers?  Hetsner is now covering both of those coasts with their latest location in Hillsborough, Oregon.  So deploy your cloud server in seconds using Hetsner by clicking on the link below.  Our QuickBits again, to get it right through your defenses and attack your funny bow.  The US Mobile Writer T-Mobile has admitted they were hacked.  Well, they admitted some of it to some people.  In a press release, the company stated the breach was shut down within 24 hours of being  detected.  What they didn't mention there, but they did mention in an SEC filing, was that the data  of 37 million customers was hacked and that the breach wasn't detected for over a month.  But once they detected it, now you have reason to switch to AT&T that does involve an unhealthy  obsession with the women from their ads.  Speaking of SEC filings, young brands, the parent company of KFC, Taco Bell and other  toilet runners admitted they also had data stolen.  They suffered an attack from a ransomware gang so bad over 300 locations in the UK were  forced to shut down.  Thankfully all locations are back up and running so you can panic eat, fried chicken as  you wait for something to hack you.  It's like popping up balloon.  It's so bad.  Chris Fix, a drone repair service that was sent 48 radion RX 6000 cards with crack  GPUs in a matter of weeks, they may have figured out just what happened.  After determining, most of the cards were bought second hand.  The repair shop posted a video explaining that they believe the cards were sold by  the crypto miners and somehow water got trapped under the chip and that expanded when  the card got hot.  Chris Fix thinks they were stored in a human environment while Reddit thinks they were  hosed down by miners before sale like in that viral clip.  Some Vietnamese miners have cleaned up their old graphics cards after Ethereum merged  by bathing them with extremely high risk.  You gotta ask yourself what's more important, a clean card or a card that doesn't explode.  That's a tough one.  I'm sorry.  You gotta keep it clean.  Sposions though.  Back on the menu baby.  Melting 49 is our back in the news because cable mods 12 volt high power cable has now  gotten a little extra kishby.  Reddit user Humblebrilliant654 posted pictures of the cable on the site and thankfully  cable mod has promised to replace the product.  Humble swore that he inserted the cable into the GPU properly and that he had been using  it for 2 months.  Or you know, someone's lying on Reddit.  But that's crazy.  They would get down voted.  As a 16 year old girl, I can tell you Reddit's office.  16 F. Kali.  And Wizards of the Coast have finally apologized for trying to release a new, worst version  of the current open gaming license which allows creators to make impoverished content for  the Dungeons & Dragons RPG.  Just after Pathfinder publisher Pezo announced 1,500 companies have pledged their support  for the OGL alternative.  The open RPG creative license ORC.  We're calling it ORC.  Wizards of the Coast said that they would no longer deauthorize the earlier version of  the open gaming license except that they still are.  Just not for content already published under the earlier version.  I guess that's a half lie.  Which is only half as bad as their last statement.  So at least they're improving.  Halfling.  They love half.  Demigod.  Demigod.  Technos coverage is improving every episode.  So make sure you come back on Monday.  There may be kittens.  Ork kittens.  Just korkins.  Durable.  Brutus kittens.  So cute and strong.  The time of the kitten is ended.  The time of the orc is now.  Me, Mel.  Now it's the time of the orc. 
