---
title: hello
transcript_by: masterchief164 via TBTBTC v1.0.0
media: https://anchor.fm/s/7d083a4/podcast/play/64348045/https%3A%2F%2Fd3ctxlq1ktw2nl.cloudfront.net%2Fstaging%2F2023-1-1%2Ff7fafb12-9441-7d85-d557-e9e5d18ab788.mp3
---

 Hi, you're listening to Stefan Lavera podcast, a show about Bitcoin and Austrian economics  brought to you by Swan Bitcoin.  Today we're exploring whether you should use single signature or multi signature for your  bigger hodling stack.  Now of course for day to day spending or certain specific scenarios you may not be thinking  about multi-seagbut here we're talking more about your hodling.  My guest today is an anartes tappadial from bit hive and they're the team behind hexawallets  and recently keeper.  This show is brought to you by Swan Bitcoin, the easy way to buy Bitcoin and also learn  about Bitcoin.  Are you looking to add Bitcoin to your corporate balance sheet?  It's never been easier with Swan Bitcoin Treasury Solutions.  With Swan Bitcoin Treasury you can automate your Bitcoin investment, custody and management  strategy and you will get expert guidance every step along the way.  Now if you are operating a business and you have employees, consider Swan's Bitcoin benefit  plan.  So basically you can pick an amount and give that to your employees and this makes it easier  for you to recruit, reward, retain top talent.  Swan handles all the heavy lifting like creating wallets, converting currency, routing  payments and like magic your employees receive Bitcoin and world class financial education  monthly as a benefit from you.  So if you're interested go to swan.com slash business.  Build on L2 is a community for Bitcoin builders by blockstream.  This is an initiative and community led effort by contributors and companies building on  core lightning and the liquid network.  It's an interactive community platform.  So if you are a builder, whether you are a product manager, a designer or an engineer,  you can come together through events.  There will be mentorship programs available to fast track your success and also a community  space to learn something new alongside other bit coiners building the future of Bitcoin  layer two.  Sign up now for early access on the platform.  It's build on L2.com.  Are you still using a plain old block explorer?  Memple.space shows you the multi layer ecosystem of Bitcoin.  Memple.space is a comprehensive Bitcoin explorer that covers this ecosystem from the  memple to the blockchain to second layer networks like the lightning network with  memple.space.  There's no need to trust a third party.  It's free and open source.  You can host it yourself with one click on various full node distributions.  Now if you are with an enterprise, remember memple.space offers custom memple instances.  You can have your company's branding, increased API limits and so much more.  Go find out over at memple.space slash enterprise.  And now onto the show with an aunt.  An aunt.  Welcome back to the show.  Thanks for having me again.  So there's been a lot going on.  I think the conversation around learning to self custody is always an important one.  It's always one that's very fresh on my mind as well.  And so, you know, we're seeing a lot of discussion.  And I think recently, of course, there was the news about Luke Dasha losing his coins.  I think I don't know exactly how many, but probably something in the range of 200 bitcoins.  So you know, a serious amount of coin.  And so there's been a lot of people making some noise about this statement, right?  They've been saying, oh, look, even if a Bitcoin core developer couldn't secure his coins  and what hope does the average person have like that they've been saying this kind of narrative?  Of course, I disagree with that strongly.  But I wonder how, how do you think about that?  See, self custody, I wouldn't like to claim that self custody is, you know,  the mentally the easiest things to do.  It is a new way to secure your stuff.  So it is going to be, they are meant to be mental hurdles when people are trying to do it.  There are going to be new things that people have to learn.  And it does not come without self responsibility, right?  So no matter how as developers and builders want to make it easier, it doesn't come without  learning and it doesn't come without self responsibility.  Having said that and having understood that this is a journey, even five years down the  lines, even when we talk about self custody.  And why self custody, you know, what other things can make self custody more, more secure  like they may be a new word, proposal or maybe new word, quote, people are proposing.  So there will always be improvements in self custody.  Even the, you know, the, the new one, like in the seat words that we use that there was  not always there.  So what I'm trying to say is that the self custody is a journey.  There's no perfect self custody solution.  And also self custody solution is, is very personal, right?  So in case of specifically the incident you're talking about, that is very, very specific  and a very, very niche.  It's not going to, it's to, it doesn't really, it is more for fun.  It isn't really applied to normal users.  No one is going to probably have like a custom security solution like he had, right?  It's almost, it's almost an on issue for regular hotlers.  But yes, there is an aspect of if a start questioning, okay, is there self custody solution  proper?  Is it, is it, you know, there is something more than they can do about it and you know,  the whole conversation starts again.  And this is going to happen again and again.  But as you and me know and what I've understood from that situation, most of it was, honestly,  it is more for fun because I don't know if there was even a court storage really involved,  the way we, we term court storage air gap storage.  So there are a lot of moving parts and it is a, it is a developing story.  We don't know how that details of it.  So once we know all the details of it, probably there will be some learnings out of it.  But we already know that, you know, you shouldn't roll your own self custody.  You shouldn't be, uh, being stuff that is very custom to yourself and it is not really  something that people have used and tried it.  It's not tried and tested.  So these are the few things which we can already draw out of that incident.  So to the whole question around should people self custody, what we end up having is a lot  of conversation around what is the best way, right?  We people, we see people saying, oh, just, you know, multi signature is too complex.  People say things like you should only do single signature with a, maybe with a passphrase.  That seems to be if I had to assess, let's say the meta on Bitcoin Twitter or on, in  online discussion, that seems to be the meta.  They say, oh, multi-seag, it's in the too hard basket for most people.  Obviously I disagree again.  I think it's more like, you know, if you're a beginner, you should use maybe a guided solution,  like have a professional help you and intermediate and advanced level people, you can learn.  It's not that like, yes.  You know, it's not that hard.  That's how I'm seeing it.  I'm curious how you see it, like single signature or multi signature.  See, we first of all, yes, you know, our state is we've been making the, you know,  Bitcoin products for a while and we come from single-seig word, exa wallet is a single-seig solution.  And it has all the aspects of a typical single-seig solution of what a wallet does.  And we can, you know, come to the deconstruction of the wallet, which will probably really help  some of the listeners.  But essentially we come from that space.  So definitely a very neat solution for people who are just getting started or people who have,  you know, you know, small amount of money, obviously that is subjected.  But essentially, you know, not like life savings or stuff like that.  But when it comes to something which you want to hold for a long term, right,  you don't want to hold it for six months and just trade it off.  And you want to, and it is significant amount of wealth,  multi-seig customer,  t6 solution is definitely something you should consider, right?  Consider it, understand it.  And then probably you can still take a call that you know, for me,  single-seig solution with the hardware wallet and past position.  That's, that's a fair thing.  If you have a, if you have a safe or if you have a place where you can keep your hardware wallet  and your 100% sure is that no one is going to ever touch it.  And your areas are going to automatically figure it out.  Then probably, you know, that might be the solution for you.  So my message for a lot of people who are top to,  so I talked to a lot of single-seig people and while building keep around the last one,  you have been talking to a lot of people who are interested in multi-seig.  So I do know both sides of the argument.  So my message for everyone who have significant wealth  and what about it for long-term is actually considered it properly.  And then take a call.  And what I have seen is a lot of people who consider multi-seig properly,  right, and look at a guided solution like a reserved and the way we have built keeper,  they actually come to appreciate multi-seig.  Yeah.  And so I think what we see is a lot of discussion about the complexity,  the added complexity, the backups aspect, the dealing with, let's say,  if you're trying to do it, you know, the right way or the hardware, the proper way with different  hardware devices and so on.  I can understand there's a little bit of extra complexity, but I think my thinking on this  is guided more by my friend Michael Flaxman.  I think he's coming from that.  He's more of a, in the multi-seig Maxi camp.  And I think his view is like, it gives you fault tolerance, right?  It gives you this extra level of security.  You just need to know how to do the backup correctly.  And you have to do certain things in the right way, in the basic way that you get these  basics right.  And then once you get those right, you are just so much more secure.  So that's how I'm seeing it.  So if you were advising somebody and let's say this person is now an intermediate or advanced  level, you know, they're not a beginner anymore, they're quite comfortable with their single  signature setup.  Why should they consider multi-seig in your view?  See, I think you mentioned it correctly is that the security guarantees of resilience,  your tolerance, that multi-seig offers you, you don't really get that basic asick.  Okay, you can add passphrase to it.  It adds a little bit of resilience in terms of attack vector, but it also adds another  single part of failure.  So it's not really people try to recreate the multi-seig using a combination of passphrase and  single-seig and you know, kind of keeping multiple copies of it.  But essentially the real, the real optionality or the resiliency that multi-seig gives you,  that those security guarantees you cannot get with single-seig.  Right.  And some of the things people see when you do single-seig, if you really break down single-seig,  if you deconstruct what simply happened in a single-seig, then you would realize that actually  single-seig, the attack vectors or the places where you can get attacked for a fontana  single-seig, actually is the same as multi-seig while in multi-seig you have multiple entities,  so you can minimize the trust.  Right.  Let me try and explain that a little more.  So let's take a single-seig and deconstruct it.  So there are essentially just four key aspects to the whole system.  So the first step really is to finish the user would generate an entropy.  Right.  That's the first step.  The second step is the second part of it or the step of it is how is that backed up?  So there's an entropy.  It is backed up.  Then the third step is from the entropy, public and private keys are created.  Right.  Public keys are used for receiving funds and balance checking and all that which we typically  call wallet functions.  And the fourth category is the signing part of it which is jumper priorities.  Now if you look at these four functions, these four functions can actually be performed by  completely separate entities.  Okay.  Let's take an example.  So entropy generation, you can use a simple dice roll or seed picker or something  else to generate the entropy.  It doesn't involve any wallet or any hardware device.  You can use them as well, but that's an example.  Then you could go away and store that entropy in terms of seed words on a metal seed plate.  Right.  You could use a mobile device as a watch only watch only wallet with the X pub.  And you could receive funds on that while you could put, you know, use a seed signer,  which is a straight let's device.  You could put the seed in it every day and you're signing in or using the seed QR and do the signing  from that device.  So what you see here is that there are four parts to it, which are completely can be handled in  different ways.  What happens in typical typical wallet is some of these functions or a lot of these functions  are combined together.  In the simplest case, I would have one app, which just the entropy generation, we just the backup,  we just the receiving part and which also signs the trend is the simplest or simplest mobile app.  The most common word we see is to convince that other than the backup, all the three functions  are combined in typical mobile app.  So for example, exa wallet, exa wallet would generate the entropy, you would store a copy of it separately.  And then the receiving of funds and the channel has taken all that wallet functions and the signing  happens from within the same one.  Right.  So if you if you see these three from three, these four functions are combined in different ways  to give rise to different solutions.  In all of these situations, the wallet, which is used for signing or which is used for receiving  funds, they are the places where there can be some, you know, attacks or there can be some vulnerabilities.  For example, if during the receiving part, the wallet might simply you know, change the receive  if you don't check it, then the funds if I'm receiving funds from you, I show an address that I think  is mine, but it is someone else that's completely gone. Right. So if exa wallet, you know, shows  you wrong address and you, you know, send money to that money is completely gone. Now, now,  let's bring some multis again. The same four things happen, multisay, but with the four of these  you know, with the multiple of these keys combined.  Now, if these functions that there are different like the example, you look off multiple vendors,  like multiple vendors are involved, you could actually buy following some simple some simple  thumb rule. You can actually check that receiving address, let's say in two of the entities.  And you're so much safer. There's not a not a single wallet, which cannot tack and change  your receiver. If you check the receivers of the wallet and maybe one of the hardware device,  it will be really difficult for someone to actually call you to cross those two,  those two systems and, you know, steal your funds. So I'm going into the real details of it.  But if you're really abstract and way back up again, the trust is the you really can minimize  the trust across multiple vendors and multiple locations and multiple platforms. If you use a  multisay instead of a single set, right? And I think that's a really important point to understand.  When we have multisig, it just gives us this whole new level of being able to check things.  And so for example, we can design things in such a way. And I know, you know, step on is not as  step on Stitcher Rive. He is not as, you know, actively contributing in the space nowadays. But  I think he was popularizing this idea of how could I make a wallet or something where even if the  a coordinator was lying, it could, you know, or how can I set something up where even one of the  devices is lying, I'm still safe. And so in a multisig context, it gives you that full tolerance,  right? Because now the coordinating software, whether that's, you know, a specter, desktop,  or sparrow, or it's, you know, un-chained capital, or it's none jerk, or it's keeper, which at  whatever that call, even if the coordinator app is lying to you, if you're checking that transaction  on the device, or in the case of receiving, you are checking your receive address on the actual device,  then you are a whole nother level safer, because it's much harder for somebody to compromise you  and steal your coins. And then this becomes very valuable once we're talking about your life savings,  or even for a corporate context, or a fund, or a trust, or any of these business entities or  other legal entities that need that have a very high security requirement. So I think it's such an  important thing, but some of the main hurdles, let's say, that most people, what would you say are  some of the main hurdles that people have to using multisig? Like, so I'm sure you've had many  conversations with people who are probably doing single-seag or just single-seag with a passphrase,  what kind of excuse do they give you or reason do they tell you, this is why I don't want to do  multisig? Yeah, so like, I was talking there is definitely a learning group, right? There is a  a learning group when you come to Bitcoin, self-custody itself is a learning group, and within self-custody  multisig is definitely a super learning group, then just because there's a lot of education  available around, you know, how to back up seat phrases and how to use a simple single-seag  group, and in this case of single-seag wallet, if you just listen to like a five-minute thing,  you would understand. But in case of multisig, yes, it is operationally more difficult, right?  You have to ensure more things. It does, but that does give you an order of magnitude better security  like we explained. It's simply impossible for one key, one coordinating app to cool you with another  hardware manufacturer, and maybe one more other hardware manufacturer, you know, somewhere across the  globe to steal just your coins. So it's almost, it's, it is very difficult, it's sort of magnitude  difficult. So coming back to the problem to the hurdles is that this is of, this operational  difficulty is one, right? And that is why it is very important that this is kind of a guided  process. It's not like you can, you are trying to do it with a command line, but there's some kind  of a result, some kind of guided process, which takes you through different steps. It has your  every step, okay, what does this mean? Maybe do this, go into the hardware product at this particular  place, and then then try to extract the expert or something like that. So if there's a guided  process, yes, it will be slightly longer, but it will be handheld in such a way that  multi-sick the operational part of it becomes not that much difficult. So that's one of the  exclusives or not exclusives. That's an, it's a reason. Let's say to be fair to them, right? Not an excuse.  Let's say reason. See, I was talking to one of the guys who was in, in advertising, he's a very  creative guy. He loves, but guy loves the idea of it, but he just doesn't have the time to, you know,  understand multi-sick beyond, he, you know, to getting on self, custody was a few years, to get him  on, uh, multi-sick would be incredibly, another few years, which is to be again to be fair to him,  he is busy, he's doing his creative stuff, he's not really, it doesn't have the time or  information to learn about multi-sick. So that is a genuine reason, but that's why our products that  we are, you know, the we are building, a lot of people are building nowadays, the  the co-opening softwares are actually, you know, it's an economic and an assisted multi-sick.  So that's one. The second is the cost. The cost is definitely a factor. So if you do a  three or five multi-sick, it might be, you know, somewhere around $500 for you. That's the,  that's probably a good three or five multi-sick. You, you can probably reduce the cost by trying out  some combinations or using some software based keys instead of hardware based keys. And if you use  some of these keys, it is, it is quite okay in terms of security. So there's a cost to it.  The costs can come down by, you know, decent combinations plus there, there are a lot of people,  a lot of companies who are trying to build products which are lower cost like taps and it's like  jade like there are fewer than what it's right. So the costs are going to come down. So these two  original, the main hurdles are hard and the coordinating software are trying to, you know,  do assisted multi-sick while hardware, modern manufacturers are trying to reduce the cost. So hopefully  this is going to become easier to easier. Yeah. And, you know, it may be, it may be a question of  another cycle or two for the multi-sick user experience to get better and popularized this further.  I'm bullish on this though. I do believe it'll come maybe in a cycle or two because once you have  a lot of people who have a lot of value in fiat terms purchasing power of terms, it'll just be  so much more applicable for them. But I certainly appreciate that today, there are some operational  difficulties. You have to think about, okay, is it more difficult to use these different wallets,  right? As opposed to just having one cold card or one device or whatever you're using. Now,  you might have to think, okay, I need to know how to use a cold card and, you know, a seed signer  and a tap signer and a kobo or a keystone, rather, you know, whatever pick your mix. And not just that,  whoever is recovering your coins, right? Because now we've also got to think about, okay, you or me,  and aren't you and I could probably figure it out like even, you know, but can our wives and kids  figure this out? You know, that's like, that's like the other level too, right? Yeah, and I absolutely  like that. That is where standardization really helps. If you talk about learning, how to use  different hardware wallets or signing devices, then if it is a standard way that those devices work,  it is much more easier, right? But if you learn one of them properly, you can use none of the  one. Same as, you know, using a phone. If you use one type of phone, there's a good chance that,  you know, with a little bit of learning, you can use another phone because they have been adopted a  lot and there are some basic, you know, assumptions of basic capabilities that have been developed.  So if there is, there's more standardization around how these things are used, then definitely,  it's going to get easier and easier, right? So we have PSBT standard, we have, you know, the  depths, we have, we have the, you know, more, very importantly product descriptors,  output descriptors, and BSMS and all these good standards which are developing, which is going to make  this learning easier because if you learn it for one device, you would probably not  for another device. So that's, that, all these things are coming together.  Yeah, sure. And so let's talk a little bit about the multi-seag set up process, right? Just so  people understand what's going on there, right? So let's just keep it simple, right? Let's just say  it's a two or three with three different device types and we're coordinating that. What are some of  the different steps involved to set up this multi-seag and operate that multi-seag?  Awesome. So let's, let's go back to the brief construction earlier, right? And it is going to be  exactly the same. First, there is a step of generating the entropy. In this case, as there are three  devices, you will generate it in three different places. This itself is going to give you, you know,  a no-signer part of failure, but let's say you have a ledger, a corn card, and let's say a  jade, a receipt signer. When you initialize those devices, you can use, you can use an existing,  you know, you see it phrase, you might have, or you can generate a new one from those devices.  You think you want to pass phrase there? So now what you've done is, you have three devices who  have generated different entropy, okay? So that piece is done. The entropy generation was the first piece.  Now, how do you back it up? You can back it up as a device itself. For example, you know, you just  want to take care of the device and put it in a sale. And additionally, for the more you can actually  put down those keywords in a written format on, on Steam and keep it somewhere else. So that the  backup stack step is taken care of. Now, you have three devices ready and they're back up secure.  The two steps are done. Now, what you will do is, you would take those devices to an app like keep  up, you would create the multi-sick, right? What, what creation of multi-sick that really step means  is, multi-sick is not really created at that point, but the cause, but you, your wallet has the  capability of generating the addresses, which can be signed with a script, which is a two of three  from these three wallets. So what you will do is you would, you would communicate with these three  hardware wallets, either through NFC or QR code and pass on the X proper relevant X-pop to the  to the coordinating software. Now, the coordinating software only has the X-pop which is which are the  public key gender terms, which is the public key gender, it still doesn't have any control of the  priority. Yeah, so just to be clear, this is like, there's a special menu in some cases, right,  because it's not necessarily the same as the one that you would use for that device in single  signature mode. So for example, in cold card, you go into settings and you have multi-signature  export, I think it's in advanced or settings. And in there, you go to multi-sick export,  take that out into a SD card, put that in, and then the coordinator app has to sort of take all of  those three, right. So exactly, so I think that's an important step because single-sick and  multi-sick from our different standards. So it is good to, you know, use the right X, you know,  right X-pop in the right path. So you would go into the settings and you would follow the steps to  import these three X-pop from these three devices, right. And when you do that, you can do that  through an SD card in keeper, you know, you can use NFC for cold card and stuff like that. So  that's slightly more secure and operationally easier. You don't really need another computer to  get in the middle. So that's what you will do. Now, now your coordinating software has all the  necessary pieces to make sure that you can, you know, produce addresses, which are, which can be  signed by that script. So that is the creation part. Now, the sending part is, let's start with  this. At this point, we also do need to, once you've created that multi-sick, then we need to register  the quarums into those devices, right. So that's the other step where you now, the coordinating  software with a inspector or a sparrow or keeper will give you a little piece of information,  which again, you either use with a SD card or you do the QR scan back and forth. And then  those devices can now register and understand, are these are the other devices in my multi-sick.  So let's say, you know, I've got this cod card and I know that, okay, there's a seed signer in my  quorum and a keystone or whatever other device. And then you have to, well, theoretically, like,  if you want to be really secure, you want to check, oh, okay, and you can read on the device,  these are the other ex-pobs associated for this device. So you can kind of check everything,  make sure it's all, you know, matching up. Yeah. So I was trying to explain the receive journey,  so that it is easier to understand why registration is needed. Right. So absolutely important  the registration step, but why it is needed is because, how does receive happen is the  coordinating software takes these ex-pobs completely independently of how do you want it.  So it will show you a particular receive address and you would, you know, one way of doing it,  you just send the money to the receive address and you will have funds if the coordinating software  is not trying to, you know, we try to steal your forms. Right. When you are signing it, when you're  sending transaction in, you know, you know, happy case scenario, you would, the coordinating software  will build that transaction up, right, using using the details that it has, it will construct a  piece of something called PSBT, which is partially signed Bitcoin transaction is just a format  of how a transaction is represented with additional data. And then it communicates again by NFC,  Bluetooth, or QR code with these hardware devices, right, or signing devices. And they would  sign these transactions. Now, there are a few things which can go wrong here and that's why  you correctly mentioned the registration step. Because the coordinating software has the central  role of combining the ex-pob, it has the central role of receiving, generating the PSBT,  which, you know, a signed device would sign, what if the coordinating software is trying to cheat,  what if the coordinating software is trying to manipulate these things, though it doesn't have  a private case, but it can manipulate the signing devices to sign the wrong PSBT or, you know,  you know, give them the wrong address. So that is where the registration step is super important.  And you described it well, registration basically means the coordinating software is saying,  by the way, this is the policy, wallet policy or the, or the multi-seat configuration I'm trying to do.  Do you want to store those details? And at this step, the user would look at the details that  is getting stored, they would probably call it code storage or they would probably call it,  you know, say for what, or what do they will call it. And then they would store that in their  signing devices. Now, what has happened? You have created multiple copies of the same configuration,  right? So next time when signing or receiving happens, coordinating app cannot cheat you  independently. You can always have, you all, you still have three other entities that you can  check and say, okay, there is something wrong here. So registration is a super important step,  which lets the signing devices independently verify that, okay, you know, if coordinating  our coordinating app or any of the other signing devices is trying to cheat or not. So that's  the essential, you know, fundamental benefit of, yeah, right. And then so as we're going through  and we're checking, so, you know, just just making sure I'm summarizing everything. So we had our  three devices. We've initialized all three of them. We either brought or did our own entropy or we  used the device entropy to create a 24 word seed or a 12 word seed. Then we ingest the multi-seag  X power bar of those three into the coordinator. Now the coordinator has the built together policy,  let's say two or three. Now we register the quorum into each of those devices. So now each of  of those devices knows the other device. And then you, the human should obviously be checking that  and making sure, okay, X pub, okay, it matches to the other X pubs. There's no lying here. There's no,  you know, everything matches up. Everything's good. I've got my two or three. Yes, take that.  And now what's next? Well, now we can receive, let's say, a test, a small amount of coin  into this wallet and you can check that on multiple devices, right? Because some of these devices  have an address explorer, which is really useful. It's a great feature because now you can, you can  see it on device one, you can see it on device two and device three or maybe what you do is you  would check a quorum of the devices, right? Maybe if you're running a two or three, you might check  it on two of the devices and then see, okay, on the coordinator, it's also shown to the same address.  Okay, good. Now I can receive some coin into this address, right? Absolutely. So testing, even if  you, you know, buy a new card, testing it out first for a trial and is always there's nothing  that it cannot go wrong. So testing it, the way you're set is a, is a great idea and we recommend it.  And testing it for sending and receiving and doing, you know, small bits here and there is  definitely something user should do before they transfer more of their funds. There are a few checks,  these, that these signed devices do automatically. For example, the change address, when you're  receiving funds, there is, there is just single address. But when you're sending funds, there is an  address that you send to, but any of that change because UTX, which like a single piece,  that when the UTX breaks, a piece of it comes back to your change address. Now there is a potential  with the coordinating, as a quarantine software, just, you know, manipulates and puts their own  change address. So this change address is something that any of the devices which have been registered  properly can check automatically. The user doesn't have to manually check it. That's a very neat  feature. And a very simple thing because if the change address is incorrect, the, the sales signed  device would simply not sign it. So that's, that's a kind of a check under the hood that happens  because only because there are multiple devices and you register with them. So that's pretty neat.  That may not happen in a single segue or just using mobile mobile app and you have just, you have  a seed phase written down somewhere. So these are the, these are, this is an, you know, some of the  Yeah. And the reason we mentioned this as well is because they have been some attacks like this  disclosed, you know, historically. Now I'm not sure if the change one was necessarily used  or exploited in the wild, but it was out, it was there for some time. And then obviously  manufacturers found it. It got patched up and so on. And so now there's a much better, there's a  much better awareness and understanding in the industry. And I think the products, the software and  the hardware are being built with this in mind, right? So that's, that's there. That's useful. So what's  next in the journey, let's say. So I think if you want, if you're really paranoid and if you really  want to get to that level, there's one most of you could do. So what you've done, you have set it up,  you have registered it, check the details. That's like the theoretical checking of it. Then you've  done a practical piece where actually send around funds and you've checked the edit, there's those  funds just showing up properly or not. This one most of you could do is basically, there are  no multiple coordinating softwares available, right? Initially, there was only, there's only  electro, like electron. That's it. Nothing else. So you couldn't really know another word, others  were closed source. So you couldn't do much. But with the help of, you know, in the training,  the last year, there are many more, they're sparrow, they're spectral, they're luncheon, they're  skipper. What you could do is recreate the world, let's say you've created a help to go through  and keep her, you could take the output descriptors, which you can talk about in a little bit,  but basically the wallet, multi-sy configuration, put it in sparrow, right? And check whether it is  showing the same addresses. And when you're doing the testing at that time also, you can check the  balance from sparrow and from keeper, you can try to send from sparrow and check it in keeper.  So now what you have, you also have a redundancy or not redundancy, there is the right word,  but multiple places, you can check the coordinating software. Back to the show in a moment.  Now, as we're talking about multi-signature, unchained can help you with multi-signature. This is  particularly important. If you are a beginner and you need a guided pathway into multi-seag, with  unchained capital, you can create a two of three vault where you hold two keys and unchained holds  the third key. Now, they can guide you into this process. They have a concierge onboarding program,  you can pay upfront. They will ship you some hardware devices if you need them, and they will  do a call with you and walk you through that process. An unchained have a really easy platform to use,  which is perfect for you if you are a beginner, and you just need some help to guide you through  this process. They also have an inheritance checklist, which comes as part of the concierge onboarding  program. So this can help you in terms of having things like a step-by-step checklist, letters for  the executor or trustee and other things. Go to unchained.com slash concierge to get this.  And finally, coinkites.com are my favorite producer of hardware signing devices. Most notably,  the cold card, but they have a range of products and gear that you will find really handy. With  the cold card, obviously it's one of the most popular Bitcoin hardware signing devices. You can  use it in single signature or you can use it as part of a multi-signature, and it has all these  features that really make it easy for you to do that. So you can register the multi-signature  you can check the addresses on the device, which gives you some more security. You can initialize  the whole thing offline without even connecting to a computer. So there's so many features and  it's such a reliable and versatile player that you can use as part of your Bitcoin security setup.  So go to koinkite.com, audio cold cards and other gear there. Use code,  Lavera, and you'll get a discount on your cold cards. Now back to the show.  Yeah, I guess it's just an extra layer of verification, right? And  certainly these are things that you do when you set up your multi-signature, right? And so  I think this is a great way for people to give themselves that piece of mind as well, because  this is one of those things that's really kind of crazy, but it's this idea that the keys  can be ported are portable in a way that you can take the key like theoretically. I could have  set up that same key in like a treasure, but then import it into a cold card and it's going to  sign the same way. It's going to sign the same coins in a way. So that's kind of useful and  that's a step that people are doing to help verify, okay, my access to my coins is, you know,  or another one that people might do is do a test recovery, right? Like let me send, you know,  $30 into this multi-seag and then just practice, oh, I've lost one of the devices or I've lost  this other thing. Can I recover? You know, how about do I have to have the right pieces together  to be able to recover if something goes wrong? And then this can give you that extra piece of mind.  Oh, okay. I was able to recover. Okay. I'm safe, right?  Yeah. And the best part, definitely is that every single user doesn't have to do this.  If a lot of users have done it initially or, you know, some users do it regularly,  then if any of these pieces, if any one of the coordinating software, any one of the  hardware devices, do they trying to do something funny? They will be caught. So the incentive to  actually try and steal funds when there are a lot of entities involved is actually reduced.  So this is the very, very key part. See, one of the things in Bitcoin, you know, is the  securities also because of the numbers, right? Because there are so many private keys possible,  it's not easy to guess them. It is not the same scale, but the idea is if you have multiple entities,  then you can minimize trust in any one of them. You don't need to trust a core  ending software. I can use another one. I don't need to use a signing device. I can use another  one, right? So as these things develop and we have like 12 or 13 signing devices available now  of five or six core data apps available now. So this becomes easier and easier and people will  get more and more confident about it. There's a lot more talking about it, a lot more education  than close about it. People who are listening to this podcast might come back with questions,  they might feel slightly more comfortable. So things are converging with standard with the ecosystem  and the education. And I'm like, you're like, you're a server, I'm also very bullish on what it's  sick. Yeah. Yeah. And so let's talk about spending now. So let's say I've set up my two or three  and now I want to send some coins to you. So I say, I'm not to give me an address. I'm going to pay  you, you know, 0.01 Bitcoin or whatever. What steps do I go through? Perfect. So if I give you an address  and you have a two or three multisick set up, the first thing to do is to check that address. I  probably have, you know, I'm showing it showing it to you on a screen or I have, you know,  a message that particular address. So when you, when you put that address in your coordinating  software and the coordinating software would probably take, you know, produce a PSBT transaction,  you would take it to your first hardware device, right? On that hardware device, the first thing  thing is to make sure that you check whether that send to addresses correct or not. Right?  That's the first step. The, like I said, the change address is automatically checked if that  particular device is registered. Okay. So these are the two checks that happen during sending  if all the device are registered. So all you have to do because they're successfully registered,  if you have chosen the right wallet from the, from the signing device, then these, these are the,  these are the checks that happen. And I think maybe it's also, so obviously in this case, it's a  two or three. So I had to go and let's say I have one device at home and then another device in  a vault or some other location somewhere. I have to go to that other location and do a, get the  signature from that device or from that, you know, signing device to get the second signature,  bring that back to, you know, the coordinating application. So in this case, if it's keeper or  specter or sparrow or whatever. And then once I've ingested that second PSBT signature,  then it'll say, ah, this transaction is now valid and you can broadcast it. Right?  Absolutely. Yeah.  I have to give explain the user steps really well. So those are the checks that happen at one place,  but then you take it to another location, the same kind of check you can do there, you can check  the receiving address at your borrowing office or any other location you have, then you put it back  to the coordinating software, not the coordinating software, because specific transaction has been  same. And there's no way to further coordinating app because it doesn't have the private keys to  change it. You can let the coordinating app, you know, broadcast the transaction. Right. And I think  one other point just on practicality that might be useful for some people, I think I've been,  because I've been playing around with devices for years, right? So I think for me, in practice,  I have found there are times where QRs can be difficult, right? So because the QR flow, like as  an example, if your, it depends on the device you're using, sometimes the resolution is bad or the  the camera on the other device is bad. And so one tip that I found useful is if you can have the  QR scanning device, that could be maybe your home device. And then if you've got like one that's  in a vault as an example, and you might have a mix, right? You might have a mix in your quorum.  And so then the devices in the vault, maybe they can be a little bit easier to have a micro SD  for signing because they are a little, I think it depends on the flow, right? It depends on the  coordinating app and everything. But if you just have a micro SD card and you're just going into  the vault area or into an office or somewhere, then maybe it's a little easier to kind of get the  signature done because if you're kind of out in a remote location and you're trying to scan the QR  and the signatures not working and, well, you know, things like this where, you know, it can be a  bit difficult, right? So I think in that case, it might be a little easier. Now of course there is NFC  as well. So there's NFC devices, things like, you know, the the tap signer is an example. But I  guess there is one downside with devices like the tap signer is you're getting less, yeah, because  it's you can't check the addresses on this thing. You can't, there's less that you can check about  the transaction. So, you know, there's trade-offs with all of these things. It is a cheap advice,  but I guess if you're storing serious, serious money, well then maybe you're going for the device,  the bigger devices with the screen and with a keypad and things like this. So those are a few  tips, I guess, that I would just offer for listeners as well when you're thinking about if you're  crafting your own multi-seag. Yeah. Okay, so let's talk a little bit about the backups and the output  descriptor and BSMS. Can you decipher a little bit of this, at least current state of play as we  talk, you know, today's the 31st of January, 2023. What's the current state of play with  multi-seag and backups? See, one thing is, you know, I want to mention because you're doing  very important point. When you are keeping something in the safe and you want to use as decar  versus QR code, one of the things people forget is some of these devices used to not have a battery,  right? So what you don't want to do is actually get that device back into your home and then do  this stuff and then take it back, right? So if you have it in a safe, it is not a bad idea, either that  have, you know, most of the new devices, that's why they have some kind of battery, the new  ledgers, the J8, they have battery. Or if you have like cold card that requires a battery, this is  not a battery, you'll just carry the battery with you. So carry the battery in a ZK SD card with you,  you know, just do the piece there either through QR code or SD card and then come back, do not  carry the sign, you don't have to carry the signing device back. You think you can keep it back safe.  Right. Yes. So just to explain there. So the idea here is let's say we've got a two or three  multi-seag and you're storing like a big amount of coin on this or whatever. The whole point is to  not have to have like, okay, yes, at the start when you set up that  corom. Yes, all three devices can be in the same location because you haven't put any coins on there.  But once you put coins on, then you don't want to bring them back together because theoretically  you're vulnerable at that point. Right. Like if a criminal or someone comes to, you know,  try to attack you at that point, you're vulnerable. Yes, even at creation actually because the  way PS bit in multi-seagverse is not really interactive that way, you can actually not have them  at the same location at any point of time. Right. Yeah, of course. Yeah. So you can do once one  in for them. Yeah. Yeah. So it's one of the whole got your back. Oh, I mean, I was just saying more  from a practicality because you might want to let's say you want to set it up and then test recovery,  test with small amounts before you separate the devices and put them into, you know, different  locations, one in the mountain, one in the, you know, one in the vault, one in the office, one in the,  you know, somewhere. So I think that's probably where I was saying that just from a practicality point  of view. But then once they once you put the coins on there, like serious coin on there, then you  don't want to pull them together because now, you know, that's where the risk is. Anyway, we  spoke about that. Let's get back to the backups question. So, you know, typically this means you save  a PDF or an output descriptor or BSMs. Can you tell us what's the current state of play there? Yeah.  So, so why do we need these these output descriptors or word configuration is because even if you  have two of the three keys, you cannot recover your function. As you don't repeat that in a  multisake, if you let's say in a three or five multisake, it doesn't mean that if you have three  of the five keys, you can completely, you cannot, you cannot even recover any of your forms.  The reason being is that, okay, you have the three keys to the safe. Let's imagine an analogous safe,  right? So you have three keys of the safe and you can open the safe, but how do you find that safe?  Right. How do you get to that safe? That is the map, you know, in that terms is what the  word configuration is and that word configuration or the multisake configuration file contains the  map details that it's basically contains the other public details of the other keys that you would  need to, need to unlock your forms basically or get access to a phone just just to want to be clear why  multisake configuration files are so important. Now, that is where things like output  descriptors and, you know, the SMS and all these things come through. So output descriptor is,  it's a very neat standard. It takes care of all the different aspects of what a configuration means.  Configuration doesn't just mean the export also means the path and the script type that you're using  and stuff like that, right? So that is what forms the output descriptor in a simple sense,  not getting into time, login, multisake yet, but that's an output descriptor. And if you have the  the output descriptor and if you have the minimum number of keys, you can definitely access the  forms. If you have three keys out of five and you have the multisake configuration file or output  descriptor, you do not need other two keys. That's the importance of it. Output descriptor is a format  which a lot of wallets use. Now, they're like I said, they're multiple pieces in there,  like the expert, the path, the, you know, master fingerprint, the script type. So these are the  part of output descriptor. I would say an improvement to that is the BSMS, which is Bitcoin, secure,  multisake setup, I think, but BSMS essentially has the output descriptors, given a specific output  descriptor template, but it also has some other details. One very neat detail that BSMS has is actually  it has the first address of the multisake, right? I really like this part and why that is important.  So let's imagine you have these five devices. One of the option after registration,  you can as you go away and check all these five devices for all the experbs, all the paths and  all the derivation and this and that, right? That's one way of doing it. But alternatively, what you  could do is you could, if it's a normal multisake, you can just check the first address, right? Because  the first address is a derivation of all these components. So if the first address is correct,  or is it, it's matching across the five devices, then there is no way they could have changed  one of the experbs or they could have changed one of the paths because they will not get the  the first receiving address. So by checking one piece, you have to share, you have actually checked  multiple of these multiple of these. As you were mentioning, the BSMS has the first address and so  you were saying that basically because the first address has to be the same, then it's, I guess  you're saying that's the reason why you find it useful as a wallet developer when you're coding  or making and building this, right? Even from a user point of view, instead of checking for like  five different things because they have to check all the cosigner experbs. So they will have to check  five experbs plus they will have to check the five derivation paths plus they will check the five  you know, script types because any of this going wrong, where you mean that it's a completely  different word. So if instead of that, what you could do in a simple case, there are complex  case where that doesn't apply. But in a simple case, what that means is if you will check the  first address, you essentially have checked all the input parameters to the first address. So if  I check this one address across the five device, I know it is the right registration. So these  are the kind of, you know, improvement that are happening from a standards point of view. And that is  why I said the most standards are leading towards better UX in the Melissa space. I see. Yeah. Okay.  And so let's talk a little bit about keeper dance specifically. Let's talk a little bit about some of  the, I'm sorry, one other thing. So with this whole output descriptor BSMS, I guess the important  point just for people to remember is that you can keep multiple backups of this. Now, yes, it impacts  your privacy, but it'll, it helps your redundancy and your, your ability to recover if something goes wrong.  So this piece, this output descriptor, the BSMS, the wallet configuration file, whatever it's called,  make sure you have multiple backups of that. You might even think about having a copy of that with  your lawyer or someone who you're doing inheritance planning with because it'll be essential as  part of the recovery process there. So that's just something to keep in mind. One, one thing you could  do with those files is, which is very practical is if you have the same devices, let's say in a safe,  you can keep a copy there. If you have like three devices in three saves and three different  locations, just keep one copy with each of them. So even if you get a USB put one in. Yeah, or you can  just like have it in an PDF or something. So that's a, that's a very practical way of doing it.  What some of the hardware, it's also doing the stupid is when you're registry, this is where you  need, when you're registering, you're actually giving those details to the hardware. For example,  cold card, let's you export that back. So now I don't need to store another copy of the word  configuration with a cold card if it's in a safe. I can use the same word configuration from cold  card to, you know, get that back. So, you know, things are becoming much easier, you don't know  who keep that stuff here. Right. Yeah. So it's even more redundancy than so. Let's talk a little bit  about the inheritance stuff. Cause I know this is something you are looking at for Kaper as well. So  what's the plan there? So in a, in a sense, people looked in different ways, right? A lot of, you know,  they've extreme, but one of my say, okay, I don't care about the legal aspects of it. And I just  want to make sure my coins are safe and I can pass it on some even believe that they just want  to die with their coins and just donate it to the network. I'm not of that opinion. I want to  plan it for generations and I, you know, not people want to do it that way. Once you have  a future condition that you can look at, you would go to pass that well done for, for  generations. So when you're doing inheritance planning, there are two aspects to it. One is  obviously the access to the keys. And then the second is the right to have the keys. Right.  When it is about the right, it is the legal construct of your jurisdiction that you have the right  to hold the keys. A lot of time, this aspect of the legal title or the rights to have the keys is  missed out. Right. What we want to do with Kaper is try to, we want to look at both these aspects  and assist in both these things. Okay, if you, you know, if let's say your partner is, is going to  get the coins up, if something happens to you. And you've told them all the locations where, you know,  two of your, you know, three of her, do I say that? Then probably, you know, it's the access part of  it easy. But there is no reason that, you know, someone else after you are not there can claim  that, okay, that person has access to it, but actually that person is not the right for owner.  Then there would be in a mix and you don't want to get the, you know, get into that kind of  situation. So that is why, you know, having your legal title clear, it's very easy. It's not very  complicated. It's a very important way to secure things and make it easy for your loved ones that  they don't have to get into hassle of first figuring out where the keys are. And then also trying  to prove that why, you know, the keys belong to that. Why you're the rightful owner or air of those  coins. So these are the two aspects. What keep it does is obviously it tells you what are the  same cutting tips like we talked about using a battery using the SD card of how to secure your keys.  And not just for yourself, you might remember the pin, but what about someone else, your,  your, you know, your kids are trying to access a bit, would they know the pin? So it gives you a  lot of safeguarding tips of how to secure your keys, not just for yourself, even for future generations.  And that's the access part of it. It also helps you identify those that are all that particular  wallet or the multi-sek wallet in a very unique way so that you can, you know, put a simple,  part of your will that, okay, you know, I have funds in this particular multi-sek and this is how  you identify this multi-sek. And anyone, you know, this person XYZ is actually the rightful owner of  them. How I get, how do they get access can, it doesn't have to be put in the will at all.  So that, you know, if you don't want to trust your lawyer or the guy who is writing the will,  you don't have to put the access part in the adult, but you do have to put how you can uniquely  identify those things and how that particular fund belongs to the air.  Yeah, I mean, there's all these privacy concerns that aspects of it too because there are  people who might say, I don't want to disclose, you know, how many coins I have or whatever.  So some of that is going to be a little bit, you have to find a way.  So we have actually, we have been actually, we think we have found a way and we've been talking  to a lot of lawyers and a lot of people in this space, how this makes sense and we've got  got great feedback on that. So what you put in the put in the profile doesn't have to,  it doesn't have to be the experts. You don't really need to put the experts, you can put your  master fingerprint there, you can put some other details there, which doesn't leak privacy at all.  Right. So there are some other ways of establishing the uniqueness. Basically, what you want to do  at the end of it is in the will, if there's an air who is uniquely identified, this is the  their legal name, this is where they'll never those kind of details. And you have uniquely identified  as best as possible, nearly identified which funds, then essentially you can, you know, that's  all that will needs. So using other methods that you know, rather than putting experts is,  you know, all the way to get across that privacy issue. Gotcha. Yeah. And certainly, as I mentioned  before, like some people might be comfortable with maybe giving a like an output descriptor to a lawyer,  but other people very much not. But of course, people should just listen, should be aware that  it's a privacy consequence to that. So obviously, you think that's true. Some people, they're not  comfortable with that and they would rather, you know, keep that away from the lawyer or away from  those other locations and maybe that output descriptor is only backed up in a location that your  family can see it, something like that. But you just have to also consider the trade off of  redundancy, right? The more copies of that out there, the more redundancy and the easier it is for  somebody to help recover in the case of that output descriptor information somehow being lost,  right? Because it's possible and we'd hate for people to lose access to the coins, right? So  those is probably a few important points. Also, I guess there's some of the more advanced stuff  that's coming, right? So I didn't episode recently about mini script. There's been some discussion  about music to do you see applications for any of this stuff? Or is it maybe a bit early?  It is definitely a bit early, but we are keeping closed look at it and we are very excited with  mini script and music to frost and stuff. It is definitely early because as you would  appreciate there are situations, not situations, there are still cases in terms of when you're  using a music to or of you have interactivity involved there, which is not really the best thing  when it comes to security, you don't want to really either bring the keys together or go to  them multiple times, right? Neither do you want to interact with each other. So there are some  answer problems in that space, but a lot of amazing people are working towards it. So that will  probably get solved sooner or later. In the next script has been actually mini script has been  around for a while now, right? And people often ask us so why not mini script here? Why not  mini script yet? We have looked at mini script, we have played at mini script, but the practical  aspect of it is different is that mini script essentially generates a safe bit kind.  Right? Mini script is good, it is generated a safe bit kind script. However, other than  multi-sick the safe bit kind script generates with multi-personing conditions and multiple  branches and all that is really it doesn't really have that much of an importance when it's a  simple multi-sick that can be done without with a simple script. But when it comes to multiple  spending policies, that is when really like a 2 of 3 plus 1 of 2 plus time log or some kind of a  combination, that is when mini script really comes to the 4. Now, though that right now, but really  there are 3 problems to it because capital distill not, you know, capital term is still not there  out there. So, so you wouldn't really be able to benefit that much from mini script right now  as you would once these things are in place. So, mini script can be used, but it is not  effective without these other factors. Right? So, once these factors are there and then there  there's less interactivity and the harder wallets are, you know, able to showcase those policies  on the small screen, these are unsolved problems yet. That is when mini script will really be useful.  So, we are looking forward to those kind of developments in the ecosystem to be able to use  these advanced features. Yeah. And he thought on time logs as well because this is something where,  you know, people love to, I guess it's one of those areas where people love to philosophise and  talk about, you know, this and that. Now, Bitcoin does have time locking, like on chain time locking,  but I think practical uses of that outside of, let's say, the smart contracting stuff like lightning,  which is a different, you know, kettle of fish here. But in terms of multi-seag and stuff like that,  are you seeing much interest in this or much practical use? Yeah, absolutely. There are a lot  of people interested in time log. There have been people, okay, are you going to do time log,  are you going to do time log? Is absolutely time log is something which we have done internally.  But the time log and, you know, we spoke about the registration and how you verify the details and  all that, that particular piece is still not there for time logs. So, you can implement time logs,  but you would, you may not have a particular sign in device supporting it. Now,  leisure is working towards it and we are working with leisure to see how we can implement it.  But essentially at this point in time, there is no real hardware support for time logs, right?  So, you might have, I think again, from your podcast and otherwise, we know that I think  Liam is trying to use time logs, but there is no sign in device support for it. And even if there  is a sign in device support, it will be without registration. So, you're losing out on to some  security to have some security. What we're trying to get towards with the manuscript and all,  is trying to get to a situation where you don't have to lose security too much to gain time  log as a feature. Yeah, totally fair. I mean, the security, but I mean, the whole reason why we're  using multi-seek to begin with is the security benefits. So, obviously, we're not going to,  you know, throw that out the window. So, yeah, I think that's important. So, I guess  couple tips that maybe we should leave listeners with just make sure when you're doing your multi-seek,  you keep it simple, right? Like, don't do something crazy. Don't, don't sort of stay in the  world-trotting pathways. I think there are good reasons to use the typical like two or three or  three of five. I think for most people, unless you have a specific use case, I think for most  people two or three or three of five is probably going to be a good quorum for people,  making sure you keep those backups, as we mentioned, the backup of the output descriptor or the  I think those are important points to remember. But yeah, I guess, do you have any other kind of tips  on multi-seek before we finish that? I think it's just a quick TLDR on what we discussed. Like,  okay, there are these three, you know, these two could configurations available and a lot of software  knowledge, like keep off for that. So, stick to that. Stick to that. Take backups, test it out,  like reset. Test it out on multiple hardware devices, any devices. And also test it out probably  on multiple coordinating software like Sparrow and Keeper and Spectra Baller. And when you do that,  you will be so comfortable because you're seeing three different things telling you exactly the  same balance and the same output. So, it will like, yeah, you know what, I kind of trust this  situation of the system that I've been. So, if you do these three, these few things, then you  want to say yes, non-tapping. Yeah, so I think it's worthwhile for a lot of people. Now,  certainly not for the beginners, but I think for people who are, let's say you're a long time,  Bitcoin are, and you know, your stack is worth a reasonable amount. It's worth your while, right?  Like, I think people lose perspective sometimes, right? Because they might be like someone who,  maybe bought some coins a few years ago or whatever, and the prices run up, and now they've got like,  you know, over a million dollars worth of coin, or let's say over 20, 25 coins in like a single  signature hardware wallet or hardware signing device or hardware signer. And you know, maybe it's time  for you to think, hey, if you're holding, you know, over 20 or 25 coins worth, what's like a few  hardware devices and some metal seeds, that's nothing for you, right? Like, so it's important to think  about the perspective. Yeah, sorry, just on that point, we did some, you know, back up then look  at the question. But like I said, I'm typical multi-seek today cost 500, right? And let's say even if you  have Bitcoin's worth $5,000, which is probably, you know, a quarter of a Bitcoin, a point, a bit  coin, depending on the price, that that will be, you know, something around 5 to 10 percent of the  security cost. Now in Bitcoin, you know, that it can 10x very easily. And if it does 10x, then it will  become like 1% of your 1% of your cost. Having a security cost of 1% to secure the whole amount  is a decent security cost, right? So if you think about it in those terms and have put in some hours of  effort, actually, like, you know, you have orders of magnitude better security. And the cost is not  really high. It is 1% of the total amount potential. So that's probably one way to think about it.  Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So I think that's the multi-seek aspect. Let's talk a little bit about Bitcoin  for India. So I unfortunately could make it last year because of clashes and stuff, but I'm  looking forward to being there. Off the top of my head is October 14th of 15th, I think, yeah,  do you want to just give us an update on Bitcoin for India? Absolutely. So this is, this is the community  piece that some of us are involved in with other volunteers. But more than happy to, you know,  put it on this platform as well that, you know, stiffer than there will be person there. And  there will be many other Bitcoiners who would be there who will be, you know, talking to  players in India and talking multi-seek, talking pastries, talking a lot of stuff, you know,  how to do, how to do probably running a node. So it will be a mixed conference like it was  this time. So the technical track and that will be a main track. But we are, we are very excited  about it. And we are obviously going to look for more participation this time from speakers and  from audience. So this is in October 14th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th  of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th of 10th  April. So yeah, nine at off. Now, we'll be looking for the F  F, the F, the F and the second F, the F and the F. So if you would send the Aremaf  app out to the reached a level of Kass Ali  and come to this channel. Maybe there may be residues at thelo, the F and you know the F and  we'll be there as well. So looking forward to that. And yeah, any other  points you wanted to mention before we finish up? No, I think I think by the time  this probably the the part goes out the keeper app would be available on  mainnet till now it was on testnet. It is still beta but it is available on  mainnet. So it's very easy for people to test out. So do give it a run, try it out  with small amounts of amount of subs and give us some feedback. It is an awesome  product and we hope you love it. Fantastic. Okay, Anna, thanks for joining me. Thanks  everyone. Thanks for having me. Cheers. I hope you found that discussion helpful and  make sure to share this episode with any family or friends who are curious about  setting up multi-signature and Bitcoin security. It's been a while since we've  really walked through some of the details of this. Of course, I have those earlier  episodes with a range of people talking about these things. I will include those  in the show notes also but I think this one is a good overview episode for  people who want to understand where things are at today with multi-signature.  So share the episode and the show notes are available at stephandlavera.com  slash 45. Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the tutorials. 
