---
title: How to Add Automatic Chapters on YouTube Videos - Auto chapters are here
transcript_by: masterchief164 via TBTBTC v1.0.0
media: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=32TziHAcKQg
date: 2021-07-15

---

 YouTube just started rolling out chapter markers in videos automatically. So I'm going to show you three different things in this video. I want to show you how to turn that option on or off per video. I want to show you how to turn the option off for your whole channel. There's a settings for that. And then the third thing is I want to show you how to override what YouTube is doing automatically. Because sometimes they don't do a good job with things like mid roll ads, for example. And I override those manually. But you could do that with chapter markers too. Let's jump it. So the first thing I want to show you is there is a settings option. Every time you go to a settings and the detail page of the video or when you upload a video, it's under show more. So this is where you add your tags for example. And it says allow automatic chapter. So this just rolled out. And by default, it's going to be checked on when videos are eligible or is available for those videos. And if you press learn more, it's going to basically show you what I'm going to show you in this video. But you could always turn this off per individual video if you don't want it to automatically at chapters to your videos. Now let me show you how to turn this off channel wide or turn it on. If you want that to be a default per video. Go to settings here. And there's the options under settings if you go to default upload upload default here. Under advanced settings, this is the new section as well. Allow automatic chapters. So if you want that turn it on here or turn it off if you don't want it. By default, I think it's going to be checked on. Now you could leave it on and see how good of a job is doing for your upcoming videos. And then if you don't like what is doing, go ahead and turn it off. But I'll show you how to manually override the chapter markers too. To create your own chapter markers and to override the automatic ones, you have to add these things called time code to your video. So this is exactly how it works. You need one for our one for minute and one for seconds. So this is the format. It's basically six different numbers. And you have to start with zero. So every time you type it out. So for example, I would type out 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 and that could be my intro. And then I would watch the video and see where a good break point for a chapter is. And then type in that number. So in this case, 35 seconds is when I go to the second tip. And then I'd minute and 34 seconds. I go to the third tip. This is going to basically break it up into those sections for me. So do the same thing. Add the time codes. Always starting with zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero. And then go up and then create these break points for chapter markers. Let me play the video to show you what it looks like when people watch it. See when people watch it, you see this really hard to see break points. If you scroll over, this is the chapter one. Takes message quick edits. This is chapter two back to that. This is chapter three, your phone has a scanner. So you could see broken up. It's kind of hard to see. But when you scroll over it, you could easily see the different break points. So I created those break points with those numbers. Now this is brand new. So hopefully YouTube does a good job with the automated version of chapters. But again, if you don't like where the chapters are taking place, you could override manually using this method. I hope you found this useful. Please give it a thumbs up and I'll see you next time.
