---
title: Microsoft could SABOTAGE Playstation
transcript_by: masterchief164 via TBTBTC v1.0.0
media: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-fnK8eAXg4
tags: ['tag1', 'tag2']
speakers: ['speaker1', 'speaker2']
categories: ['hello', 'hi']
date: 2023-01-30

---

 Where am I? How did I get here? What? Oh, well, I guess we'll never know. It's tech news time. Sony and Microsoft are continuing the most high stakes tug of war match since Squid game. And well, things are starting to get weird. Like the show, Squid game. Or just a squid! Sony's latest attempt to gain back some ground is to accuse team Xbox of future sabotage. The PlayStation manufacturer claims that if the merger goes through, Microsoft might release a PlayStation version of Call of Duty where bugs and errors emerge only on the game's final level or after later updates. Now first off, that's an extremely specific hypothetical scenario. Why wouldn't they sabotage it earlier in the game? And second, levels? Call of Duty is like pornography. Very little of the audience cares about the plot. Meanwhile, Activision Executive Lulu Chang Mezzarey has claimed on Twitter that when the publisher offered Sony guaranteed long-term access to Call of Duty in a closed-door meeting, the CEO of Sony Interactive Entertainment Jim Ryan replied, I don't want a new Call of Duty deal. I just want to block your merger. He's cleaning his wood? I just want block your... That pretty good? But we take this quote with a grain of salt. Mezzarey previously argued that the success of HBO's the last of us adaptation meant Microsoft should be allowed to buy Activision because acquiring one of gaming's biggest publishers and producing a TV show based on one of your games are comparable somehow? On the other hand, Sony's sabotage claims are also pretty wacky, so maybe she is telling a truth. And the fact that this deal is taking is along, is kind of starting to mess with people's heads. Epic games have officially launched self-publishing tools on the Epic Game Store after a year and a half enclosed beta in their latest attempt to compete with Steam. If you didn't know literally every detail, Epic CEO Tim Swenie has you covered by tweeting all of it. Hey Tim, that's a hard job. Of course, Steam's offered self-publishing for some time, but there are some nice benefits to self-publishing on Epic rather than Steam. For starters, Epic takes a fixed 12% commission on game sales while Steam's commission starts at 30% and decreases at certain sales milestones. Publishers on Epic can also keep 100% of the money earned from in-game purchases if they use their own payment system. On the flip side, this probably means a lot of free-to-play live service games will be seen on the Epic Game Store rather than where I personally would like them, Tai Dua wouldn't stake being engulfed by flames. But all the things I don't like, there is a big caveat though, unlike Steam, Epic doesn't allow porn. I guess you'll have to go literally anywhere else on the internet for that. It's such a hassle. Just as Bing. And Discord has decided that it too will be adding AI features. First, the platform's resident robot Clyde will be given a chatGPT upgrade so that users can talk to Clyde by asking questions or even include Clyde in group conversations with you and anyone else in your server. Finally, I made my first Discord friend. Discord is also using AI to power up their auto-mod feature, which will be able to find and alert a server's moderator when a rule is broken while keeping in mind the context of a conversation, which I'm sure will come in handy whenever the topic of 1930s Germany innocently pops up. Discord will incorporate an AI-powered conversation-summerese feature that will sort a server's messages into summarized topics to allow users to catch up on the conversation more easily after being away doing other things like, you know, talking to their family, touching grass, other cliches, etc. In other news, Discord voice chat is now officially available on PS5 after being in beta for over a year. Finally, PS5 users can natively hear from all the Xbox users that have slept with their moms. So that's a great feature. I have a sponsor message from Vesley. Because I'm Vesley, I can't run any conditions. Even something like this happened, I don't care. But what I actually do is one my dog is a dog park and I don't even mind the mod. And all, ew Dennis, you're a loser at bay you came in and watched them. Don't you do under a statement Vesley? All you need to do is gently scrap with sponge and then then air drop. Basically, the attack technology is 100% water poop that keep my feet dry like a desert but also breathable. Of course, I got your deal. Use code tag link at vesley.com slash tag link and save 15% on your purchases. It's time for another quick bits intro. I guess that was it. That was it. You got it. All right. Meta is looking to compete with Twitter in a way that's different than the way it already competes with Twitter by making their very own Twitter. The decentralized text-based social network is codenamed P92, not to be confused with P90X, the horrible torture session led by Skeletor as I call it. Stay away from my fairies. It's easy to remember the difference though. P92 is a social media platform. While P90X is meant to make you feel better about yourself. Opposite. Have you been on Twitter? Scientists claimed to have discovered a room temperature superconductor, a material that can conduct electricity without resistance and would revolutionize modern electrical systems. Ironically, the paper detailing this material is facing a lot of resistance. Since one of the authors of the paper claimed the same thing two years ago in another paper and that paper was retracted for misleading data. But he's probably not lying this time. I mean, he wouldn't. He'd be like, you got caught already. Why would you? He's a bit of a fixer upper. A new retail motherboard from Asus has all of its connectors on the back to help aesthetically minded PC builders hide their cables. The board is called BTF, which apparently stands for, back to the future, a name that may rub both acronym and ADD's movie enthusiasts the wrong way. What? The announced board supports Intel CPUs as of now, but we don't yet know if AMD will get back to the future part too. Asus D manufacturer Sabron has teamed up with SSD controller maker Faison, put a great pair. To develop a PCIe Gen5 SSD that could potentially reach read speeds of 14,000 megabytes per second. So far, the pair have reached a speed of 12,398 megabytes per second, which experts are calling. Pretty f*** fast! The SSD is still under development, but Sabron appears confident. They will eventually reach their target speed. And when they do, I probably won't buy it in the sense, but very expensive. And the hot new trend among car manufacturers is removing AM radios from their electric vehicles, but Ford is being even more brave. And removing it from their gas power 2024 Mustang. Now they had already removed it from the electric F-150 lightning, claiming as other automakers have that electric engines generate electromagnetic noise that interferes with an AM radio. So I guess the excuse this time will be that the internal combustion engine generates sound noise that makes it harder to hear the radio. Just say no one uses AM radio and you want to cut costs. It's not that hard to say. Use your words. Just like how it's not that hard to come back on Monday for more news of the tech variety. Man, you're going to have a great weekend and then you get more tech news. I'm so jealous of you right now. Linus! What are you doing here? I didn't know you worked here. Finally, PS5 users can natively hear from all the Xbox users that have slept with their moms. Mom's okay.
